Welcome back in in this lesson I actually had to build an email extractor using Reg X..
So let's do some updates to some of the code that we had earlier we can get rid of this part here and
this time let's use textarea.
Those are h t m l and this gives us the ability to do a fairly larger area where we can input text.
Let's give it an idea of T x area.
And also let's add some rows so it gets 12 rows and columns would need quotes around their so columns
and let's do 100 columns Let's go back and refresh it.
So there's our textarea and get e-mails.
Basically I want to get emails while I get all of the e-mails out of the text that we're going to be
importing pasting into there.
So next we knew we need to set up a function.
So let's set up a function called look up
and within look up I want to grab the content that's available within text area and I also did want
to add one of the things so I wanted to create a form and give it a name so that I can easier pick up
that this textarea for extraction and also going to change this ID to a name so giving the form a name
this is going to give me the ability to identify that content just within this form look up.
So let's call it my form and we'll do something like that.
And then we're going to wrap that H-2 Mel within the form.
And this is just for as we saw earlier within one of the previous lessons where we can simply get that
information.
So this one is going to be the raw This is the raw text.
So we want to first grab the contents that are within the text area and we know that we can specify
document and then we can go down to the money form and then within my form we can grab a text area and
from here we can grab value.
So let's just go into the console and make sure that we're actually grabbing the contents of that.
So let's go out here.
Refresh it.
Add in some content there and we can see that we are in fact grabbing that content that raw text.
So the next step is to actually do something with it.
So now that we've grabbed that raw text we need to create another variable and extract the emails.
And this is where Reg X comes into play.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and create a brand new variable that's going to hold that
those e-mails.
So call it variable he dieta and then output if take a look through this raw text and only returned
back only match and return back that e-mail addresses.
And we saw the pattern earlier on.
So go ahead and use that same pattern and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So you have an opportunity to try that.
And we know that we've got all of our texts so this is our stream that we now have to work with.
And next we can use match.
And then within match we need to just simply put our content.
So I put our email addresses out and actually match for our e-mail addresses and we can use that same
regular expression that we used earlier.
And we can also use various ones.
There's a bunch of different ones on the web as well.
So some of them are actually shorter and some of them are way longer.
So I'm going to just go ahead and use the one that we used earlier.
So this one is going to pull back all the e-mail addresses that are available in there.
And actually since I'm on this page I'm going to grab some of this text and I'm going to paste it into
my input here.
So let's go back and refresh and let's see.
So it's paste in some content and get email addresses.
So basically I'm able to pull out both of those email addresses out of the string.
So now it's just a matter of returning those e-mail addresses.
So it's as easy as that to grab those email addresses from a string content.
And now what we can do is return those addresses below.
So what I want you to do now is create a separate area here and maybe another input area text area and
in that one I want you to comma separate and output all of the e-mail addresses that you getting from
that textarea.
So good pause the video and and add that into our project and I'll show you the solution coming up.
So we had an opportunity to try that out.
And at this time we're going to create another textarea input that's going to clean this up a little
bit.
So that was the beautiful function from brackets.
So that's an extension that I've added in and allows me to re organize my code so it's a lot more readable.
So I'm going to call this one text area too and I'm going to keep it all the same there so it's easy
for me to just simply copy and paste that.
So we know that we are returning back some content into the data.
So basically we know that that basically means that we've got some e-mails in there and we see that
within and we've got the link.
So we've got our array all ready to go.
So this time let's use a loop.
So setting our x value and looping X while it's less than the length of data and then increment x.
So this is a loop through the contents of the array and you can use the shorter formats as well.
So preferred within the Course I'm just keeping the longer formats.
So that's more self-explanatory when we look at the code.
So the next thing that we need to do is we need to output those values.
So let's also let's add in.
So let's set up a new variable so called variable and h t m l and this one is going to be emails.
So that's how we're going to start out our h t m l
and actually doesn't have to be h t m l so actually because we're going to be listing all the emails
and that other input maybe we'll just leave it blank as emails.
Now let's increment our h to M L So we know that with our array we can simply loop through them and
we can add those email addresses into our array.
So there is actually a shorter format in order to get that output.
So if you remember previously when we looked at arrays we know that we can take an array and we can
convert it to a string.
So we do have that two string method and this gives us the ability simply to turn our rate to a string.
So let me remove that for now.
And instead of Konsole that will output or H2.
So this will basically output our content and actually we can do it even more where we can do something
like this and then do value.
And then we call that to page 2 mill or we could even shorten it even more so it's always about trying
to shorten it as much as possible.
So this was text area too.
So now let's let's try this first.
So refresh and let's grab that all that string content that was available on the Web site and get out
the e-mail addresses.
So there we go.
So we simply can convert it into a string and put it within our H2 himself.
So the one thing that could become a problem is if I've got multiples of the same email addresses so
sometimes you don't want to have multiples.
And this is where the loop comes in because we do need to be able to loop through it in order to output
that content.
So although this is a great solution if we're just simply output in the e-mails what I want you to do
now pause the video and add in the ability to actually check to see if we're.
We've already got an e-mail address available within our Auray.
So although this works and this is good let's go back to our loop and this is actually going to give
us the ability before we actually added into our array to make sure that it actually fits in there so
we can comment some of this and I'm going to go back to just keeping this as blank.
And we don't need to console log that.
Because we know that now we're grabbing those e-mail addresses and they're going to comment to this
solution.
So what I want you to do now pause the video and create an array in order to hold these e-mail addresses
and then also what I want to do within the loop is to check if that value is already within the array.
And if it's in there then we skipped that.
And if it's not in there then we're going to add it in sorting basically going to be removing any duplicate
e-mail addresses.
So show you how to do that coming up.
So first of all let's set up a basic empty array.
I'm going to call it holder next within the loop as I loop through all the e-mail addresses what I want
to do is I want to have a condition here and I want to check to see if that value is within the holder.
So if we do index of we can check to see if value is contained within there.
And this time we're doing data and let's put that current value.
So a check to see if it's in there and if it's not in there then we can go ahead and we can push that
value in there.
So we're just going to do some copying and pasting here and we're going to push it into the holder right.
So at the end of the day once we finish our loop we've got our condition there and now it's console
log out what's contained within holder
and now we're ready to try that within the browser.
So I'm going to copy some of this out and let's save it and refresh the page.
So now let's put that in there.
And now this time we do have some duplicates and now we can get e-mail addresses and we can see that
the output here.
So we're not having
so what happened here we actually got the two duplicate.
And if we were to actually copy this so even more and we had a bunch of them and if we do get e-mails
so we are getting all the duplicate set.
So we need to remove the duplicates so paused the video.
And if you know the solution to this update the code and look at what we're doing within the Holger
array and index of.
And we know that index of returns back a value of negative 1.
So if that item is not in the array the value is going to be negative 1.
So it's not going to be true it's going to be negative 1.
So we need to update this condition in order to be able to match to see if that particular value is
already within that array.
So I paused the video and make that update.
So the solution coming up so the solution is to make sure that we're checking for the value of negative
1.
So now if we refreshed it and we get e-mails we can see that we've got three unique e-mails.
So it actually doesn't matter how many times these emails are within that string.
We're only going to get the unique ones being returned back.
So this is the way to return back unique values within the array that we've pulled using our regular
expression.
And you can also do quite a bit more as well.
So when you're creating an array you can update it and you can update different types of separators
for the emails.
So sometimes when you want to extract or email addresses and you do get e-mail it's not good enough
to just simply outputting a comma separated.
And one of the things that we still need to do so before we finish off this lesson we need to output
the contents of Holder within that array.
So let's let's copy this and refresh it.
So that was the one loss parameter.
So now we can just simply output it here.
So the next step is to format it so it's not comma separated.
You can try out different separators within your output so pause the video and try that out.
Try putting the different separator such as a pipe so the pipes are the ones like that.
So make the output come out as a pipe and try out a different a few different formats.
Show you the solution really quickly as well for this.
So in order to output an array you can also do a join because the holder is an array and we can join
it.
And then we can insert whatever character we want to join it by.
So sometimes when you're putting email addresses you want to have a specific format and you can do this
with the join.
So that gives you the ability to do pipes.
So try out a few different separators for the email addresses on the output using the code that we've
used.
Within this lesson.